Category 1 Attaining all designated uses. Waterbodies will be placed into this 
Category if, in accordance with the requirements of the CALM, the 
assessment results indicate that the waterbody is attaining all water quality 
standards for all designated uses. 

Category 2 Attaining some of the designated uses; and insufficient or no data and 
information is available to determine if the remaining uses are 
attained. Waterbodies will be placed in this Category if there are data and 
information which, in accordance with the CALM, support a 
determination that some, but not all, uses are attained and attainment 
status of the remaining uses is unknown because there is insufficient or no 
data or information. 

Category 3 Insufficient or no data and information are available to determine if 
any designated use is attained or impaired. Waterbodies will be placed 
in this Category where the data or information to support an attainment 
determination for all uses are not sufficient, consistent with the 
requirements of the CALM. In general, these uses and waterbodies are 
considered Not Assessed. 

Category 4 Impaired or threatened for one or more designated uses but does not 
require development of a TMDL. (Three subcategories):
    A. TMDL has been completed. Waterbodies will be placed in this 
subcategory once all TMDLs for the waterbody have been developed 
and approved by EPA. 
    B. Other pollution control requirements are reasonably expected to 
result in attainment of the water quality standard in the near 
future. Waterbodies will be placed in this subcategory where other 
pollution control requirements are stringent enough to attain 
applicable water quality standards. 
    C. Impairment is not caused by a pollutant. Waterbodies will be 
placed in this subcategory if pollution (e.g., flow) rather than a 
pollutant causes the impairment.

Category 5 Impaired or threatened for one or more designated uses by a 
pollutant(s), and requires a TMDL. This Category constitutes the 
303(d) List of waters impaired or threatened by a pollutant(s) for which 
one or more TMDL(s) are needed. 

